Upgrade: add 4.0 upgrade guide (#250)
jquery/jquery.com: pages/upgrade-guide/4.0.md

<script>{
	"title": "jQuery Core 4.0 Upgrade Guide",
	"toc": true
}</script>

> ## Overview

Reviewer: We want that for the RC, before the final, so before the final gets released, I'd add a note here at the top that jQuery 4.0 is in the RC phase and some details may still change before the stable release.

With the major version of 4.0, the jQuery Core team has taken the opportunity to make changes to clean up the API and fix bugs that may prove to be breaking changes for some. This includes the removal of previously deprecated public APIs, changes to or removal of undocumented APIs, and changes to the documented or undocumented behavior of existing APIs for specific inputs.

> ## Browser Support

Reviewer: Let's mention that Edge Legacy (pre-Chromium) is not supported.

Changes are listed by their component category, and prefixed with a description to help you understand its impact:

* **Breaking change:** This change *may* affect existing code, since it changes the API surface in some way. Most of the time the impacts are only for specific edge cases as noted.
* **Feature:** The change is an API addition and should not affect existing code in most cases. However, there is the possibility that new features can interact negatively with existing code.
* **Deprecated:** This feature or API is still present in jQuery 3.0, but its use is discouraged. It may be removed in a future major-version update.

Remember that the jQuery Migrate plugin described above can detect and warn about many of these changes so that they can be fixed in your code.

For a complete and detailed list of all code changes, see the 3.0 milestone in the [jQuery Core issue tracker](https://github.com/jquery/jquery/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A4.0.0) or the [version diff](https://github.com/jquery/jquery/compare/3.7.1...4.0.0).

> ### Ajax

Reviewer: Should we mention Ajax now supports binary data in bodies - the minor breaking change is that prefilters are now fired a bit earlier, before converting the body to a string? This is a pretty important feature.

I know some of that may only make sense in the blog post. But there's a small breaking change attached here.

#### Breaking change: JSON to JSONP auto-promotion removed

Previously, `jQuery.ajax` with `dataType: 'json'` with a provided callback was automatically converted to a JSONP request unless one also specified `jsonp: false`. Today, the preferred way of interacting with a cross-domain backend is CORS, which works in all browsers jQuery 4 supports.

Auto-promoting JSON requests to JSONP introduced a security issue. The developer may be unaware they are executing code from a remote domain. The auto-promoting logic has been disabled.

To trigger a JSONP request, it's now required to specify `dataType: "jsonp"`.

#### Breaking change: Scripts are no longer auto-executed without `dataType: "script"`

jQuery 3.0.0 had already stopped auto-executing scripts retrieved with `jQuery.ajax` unless `dataType: "script"` was explicitly set for cross-domain scripts. That change has now been extended to same-domain scripts.

To fetch *and* evaluate a script, pass `dataType: "script"` in `jQuery.ajax` options or use `jQuery.getScript`.

> #### Breaking change: Script tags now used for all async requests

Author: Yeah, I consider it separate. I think someone going the JSONP route would not have trouble upgrading them, other than the need to specify `dataType: "jsonp"`, which is mentioned earlier..

> #### Breaking change: Script tags now used for all async requests

Reviewer: OK, makes sense.

This change may affect existing code if certain scripts were expected to execute even when CSP headers were set. Either modify the CSP header to allow scripts from the same domain or remove the scripts.

### Attributes

#### Breaking change: `toggleClass(boolean | undefined)` signature removed

This particular signature was deprecated in jQuery 3.0 and is now being removed in jQuery 4.0. After feedback and discussion with the community, it was determined that this signature caused unexpected behavior. For instance, if the argument to `toggleClass` was a variable that turned out to be `undefined` or `false`, it would result in all classes being removed. Also, while the `toggleClass( boolean )` signature was documented (and has been marked deprecated since 3.0), the `toggleClass( undefined )` signature was not.

The recommendation for migration is to be explicit about which classes should be toggled.

> ### Core

Reviewer: Some people used our AMD modules directly; I'd mention that jQuery source is now authored using ESM and code under `src/` is in ESM.

What's cool is that it works natively in the browser as well. You can just do - assuming you have jQuery cloned into the folder `jquery` next to the HTML file, or downloaded from npm:
```html
<script type="module">
	import { $ } from "./node_modules/jquery/src/jquery.js";
	/* ... */
</script>
```
or, using import maps:
```html
<script type="importmap">
{
	"imports": {
		"jquery": "./jquery/src/jquery.js"
	}
}
</script>
<script type="module">
	import { $ } from jquery";
	/* ... */
</script>
```
and it works without any build process while importing all the individual jQuery modules natively. Of course, you can also import our built module file:
```html
<script type="importmap">
{
	"imports": {
		"jquery": "./node_modules/jquery/dist-module/jquery.module.js"
	}
}
</script>
<script type="module">
	import { $ } from jquery";
	/* ... */
</script>
```

It's pretty cool that it works, I'd mention it with some examples.

Author: I don't think we need examples here of how to take advantage of ESM modules. That will be a major highlight for the blog post. But, I did forget that some may be relying on AMD, so I'll add a note about that.

#### Breaking change: Deprecated APIs removed

The following APIs were deprecated in previous versions and have been removed in jQuery 4.0:

* `jQuery.camelCase`
	This function was never documented and was only used internally. It was deprecated in jQuery 3.0.

* `jQuery.cssProps`
	This object was used to map CSS properties to their vendor-prefixed versions, which is no longer necessary in jQuery 4.0's supported browsers.

* `jQuery.isArray`
* `jQuery.isFunction`
* `jQuery.isNumeric`
* `jQuery.isWindow`
* `jQuery.fx.interval`
* `jQuery.parseJSON`
* `jQuery.nodeName`
* `jQuery.now`
* `jQuery.trim`

> * `jQuery.type`

Author: I wanted to list a bunch of the small ones quickly rather than give them all big headers. Some of the bigger ones still have their own sections, but I think I've got them all now.

#### Breaking change: Remove undocumented Array methods

jQuery 4.0 removes `push`, `sort`, and `splice` from the jQuery prototype. These methods were copies of the methods of the same names on the native Array prototype, but were never documented and were not intended for public use. Some plugins may have used them, so we are still marking this as a breaking change.

> #### Slim build breaking change: Remove `callbacks` and `deferred` modules

Reviewer: `queue` is explicitly removed as well; let's mention that.

The slim build of jQuery 4.0 no longer includes the `callbacks` and `deferred` modules. Use the full build if you need these modules, or use native Promise objects.

> #### Breaking change: Remove undocumented `root` parameter of `jQuery()`

Reviewer: Not of `jQuery()`; of `jQuery.fn.init()`. `jQuery` is already skipping this argument even on `3.x-stable` (https://github.com/jquery/jquery/blob/3.x-stable/src/core.js#L33-L38):
```js
	jQuery = function( selector, context ) {

		// The jQuery object is actually just the init constructor 'enhanced'
		// Need init if jQuery is called (just allow error to be thrown if not included)
		return new jQuery.fn.init( selector, context );
	};
```
while in `jQuery.fn.init` it exists there (https://github.com/jquery/jquery/blob/3.x-stable/src/core/init.js):
```js
	init = jQuery.fn.init = function( selector, context, root ) {
```

Let's also mentioned this is the third parameter.

The `root` parameter of `jQuery()` was never documented and was only used internally. Also, it has not been necessary since jQuery 1.9 when `jQuery.sub()` was removed.

> #### Important fix: Add `exports` to package.json

Reviewer: This is pretty niche, but we are moving the jQuery factory to a separate endpoint, this may affect some Node.js users. We do mention some other niche stuff below, so I'd mention it.

> jQuery exports multiple builds that can be used in different environments. This includes the default build as both a universal module (UMD) and an ESM module, the slim build in UMD and ESM, and a factory build for running jQuery with DOM emulators like JSDOM. The `exports` field in `package.json` is used to specify which build is used in different environments. This change is not expected to affect existing code.

Reviewer: Re:
> This change is not expected to affect existing code.

We do expose `./src/*.js` - although it might be worth making it clear here that we don't guarantee stability of them even across patch updates - but we don't e.g. expose `dist`. Especially for users loading the slim version by importing from `jquery/dist/jquery.slim.js`, this will no longer work as only paths mentioned in `exports` are exposed. I'd mention that.

It might also be a good place to shortly mention how to now import the slim version - and maybe factory versions as well. This doesn't have to be too long.

> ### CSS

Reviewer: From my summary:
```
* CSS: Remove the opacity CSS hook
    * 865469f5e60f55feb28469bb0a7526dd22f04b4e
    * The consequence is `.css( "opacity" )` will now return an empty string for detached elements in standard-compliant browsers and "1" in IE & the legacy Edge. That behavior is shared by most other CSS properties which we're not normalizing either.
```

Let's mention that now `.css( "opacity" )` on disconnected elements will return an empty string instead of `"1"` in modern browsers. I expect some code may depend on the `"1"` default.

#### Breaking change: `px` no longer automatically added to most unitless values

jQuery 4.0 switches strategies when it comes to setting CSS properties that require units. Previously, jQuery would automatically add `px` to unitless values, with some exceptions. This behavior has been removed in jQuery 4.0.

Instead, jQuery will now only add `px` to a limited set of properties that are known to require it. This change may affect existing code that relies on the old behavior.

> ### Data

Reviewer: I'd mention that the `.data()` setter used to convert `-ms-x` to `msX` and now to `MsX`. This is a result of separating `camelCase` logic between `data` & `css` modules.

Author: I think that's too niche. Also, with the removal of support for IE10 and below, I'd rather encourage users not to use `-ms` at all, unless there are cases where it's still applicable.

Reviewer: OK, fair enough. I think we don't even handle that in Migrate, although maybe that part we should fix.

Reviewer: I created https://github.com/jquery/jquery-migrate/issues/579 to consider a Migrate patch for this.

#### Important fix: `Object.prototype` pollution

> jQuery 4.0 includes a fix to ensure event and data keys matching `Object.prototype` properties are supported without overriding the native properties. This change is not expected to affect existing code unless it specifically used native property names as event or data keys, which may have caused unexpected behavior anyway.

Author: I'll just say it's not expected to affect existing code.

### Deferred

#### Breaking change: Removed jQuery.Deferred.getStackHook

> This has been renamed since 3.7.0 to jQuery.Deferred.getErrorHook. It is used to pass the original error to jQuery.Deferred.exceptionHook. Previously, we recommended passing the stack but that didn't play well with source maps.

Author: I'll add a note and a TODO to link to docs.

### Event

#### Breaking change: Stop shimming focusin & focusout events

> jQuery 4.0 no longer shims the `focusin` and `focusout` events. This only affects code that relies on the order of these events as they relate to `focus` and `blur`. This change is expected to affect very few users.

Reviewer: For the record, all non-IE browsers will now - when moving focus between inputs - trigger events in the order: `blur`, `focusout`, `focus`, `focusin`. In IE, because we shim `focus` & `blur` using `focusin` & `focusout` without caring to maintain a specific order (which we do in 3.x), `blur` can be before or after `focusout` and `focus` can be before or after `focusin`.

I'm not sure if it's worth documenting it here, especially the arcane IE aspects. If anything, we could consider just writing that non-IE browsers now fire `blur` before `focusout` and `focus` before `focusin` and mention that in IE the order can be different.

> #### Breaking change: Avoid collisions between jQuery.event.special & Object.prototype

Reviewer: Avoiding collisions is a feature, not a breaking change. A breaking change is if someone relies on this inheritance - most commonly by calling `jQuery.event.special.hasOwnProperty( ... )`. You mention that in the section but the header focuses on the feature. How about:
```suggestion
#### Breaking change: `jQuery.event.special` no longer inherits from `Object.prototype`
```
?

This section should be similar to the relevant data one IMO.

This may affect code calling `hasOwnProperty` on `jQuery.event.special`, which should  be rare.

### Manipulation

#### Important feature: Add support for Trusted Types

jQuery 4.0 adds support for [Trusted Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API) for all manipulation methods. This change is not expected to affect existing code, but it is an important feature for security.

#### Potentially breaking change: Avoid concatenating strings in buildFragment

This change was needed in order to add support for [Trusted Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API). It's not entirely clear what real use cases might be affected by this change, but we're listing it here just in case.

#### Important fix: Don't remove HTML comments from scripts

> Browsers can now handle this without jQuery's help. This change is not expected to affect existing code, but is an important fix because jQuery's logic removing those comments was not correctt in 100% of cases.

Reviewer: This was done on `3.x-stable` as well (released in `3.6.1`) and we don't treat it as breaking. What was not done in 3.x but done on `main` was no longer removing CDATA section markers either.

Compare:
* 3.x version: https://github.com/jquery/jquery/commit/924b515dd3f33fff3e5122408fcccecc2d775425
* 4.x version: https://github.com/jquery/jquery/commit/2f8f39e457c32c454c50545b0fdaa1d7a4a2f8bd

### Selector

> #### Breaking change: Drop support for legacy pseudos

Reviewer: People can confuse that for previously announce positional pseudos like `:first` which we postponed. How about:
```suggestion
#### Breaking change: Drop support for legacy custom pseudos
```
?

References in Sizzle wiki: https://github.com/jquery/sizzle/wiki#-backwards-compatible-plugins-for-pseudos-with-arguments

#### Important fix: Backport jQuery selection context logic to selector-native

> jQuery has long had a minimal selector engine that could be used in place of Sizzle. This engine was missing some logic that Sizzle had for handling the context of a selection. This change backports that logic to the native selector engine, which may affect code that relied on the old behavior. For example, `$div.find( "> *" )` will no longer throw an error when using the native selector engine.

Reviewer: `$div.find( "> *" )` is an important case to mention, but previously it'd throw so this in itself is not breaking. What's breaking is the filtering logic, can we mention a case for this? The most simple would probably be mentioning that with HTML:
```html
<div>
	<span></span>
</div>
```
and `$div` being a jQuery object containing this `div`, `$div.find( "div span" )` would now return 0 results.

	This object was used to map CSS properties to their vendor-prefixed versions, which is no longer necessary in jQuery 4.0's supported browsers.

* `jQuery.isArray`
	Use Array.isArray.

* `jQuery.isFunction`
	Use typeof value === "function".

* `jQuery.isNumeric`
	Use Number.isFinite or a custom implementation.

* `jQuery.isWindow`
	Window detection is generally unreliable and discouraged. If absolutely necessary, use `obj != null && obj === obj.window`.

* `jQuery.fx.interval`
	The default value was 13 (milliseconds), but has been removed as it does not work well with `requestAnimationFrame`. It should no longer be necessary.

* `jQuery.nodeName`
	Use `element.nodeName.toLowerCase()`.

* `jQuery.now`
	Use `Date.now()`.

* `jQuery.parseJSON`
	Use JSON.parse.

* `jQuery.trim`
	Use String.prototype.trim.

* `jQuery.type`

> 	`typeof` is sufficient for most cases.

Author: Good point. We no longer return anything but `"object"` for objects internally, but that's not historically what the function returned. I'll update to cover more cases.

The slim build of jQuery 4.0 no longer includes the `callbacks` and `deferred` modules. Use the full build if you need these modules, or use native Promise objects.

#### Breaking change: Remove undocumented `root` parameter of `jQuery.fn.init()`

`root` was the third parameter of `jQuery.fn.init()`, but was never documented and was only used internally. Also, it has not been necessary since jQuery 1.9 when `jQuery.sub()` was removed.

#### Important fix: Add `exports` to package.json

> jQuery exports multiple builds that can be used in different environments. This includes the default build as both a universal module (UMD) and an ESM module, the slim build in UMD and ESM, and a factory build for running jQuery with DOM emulators like JSDOM. The `exports` field in `package.json` is used to specify which build is used in different environments. This change should not affect existing code in most cases, but it is an important fix to ensure that jQuery can be used in a wider range of environments. In fact, jQuery now exports a separate "factory" version for use in Node where the DOM is not available, such as in testing environments like JSDOM. This used to be supported by the main jQuery file, but it is now a separate build and the `exports` field ensures that it is used correctly.

Reviewer: The factory entry point is mentioned twice, I'll leave it up to you to decide if that's OK.

I was thinking about a more detailed imports usage, but that's perhaps better kept in a blog post and the npm package README.

Reviewer: BTW, the `4.0.0-beta.2` README didn't use our fixture but the main README of the jQuery repo:
https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery/v/4.0.0-beta.2
The fixture was as intended:
https://github.com/jquery/jquery/blob/4.0.0-beta.2/build/fixtures/README.md

This tag already has the new release code, perhaps there's a bug there?

Let's make sure this is using a correct version for the RC.

Reviewer: Yeah, the npm package for `4.0.0-beta.2` is off... It contains the `.vscode` folder and a `local.log` file (it looks like it wasn't done on a fresh clone?) and some other files:
https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery/v/4.0.0-beta.2?activeTab=code

It looks like `npm publish` was done from the `jquery/jquery` repo instead of the proper `jquery/jquery-dist` - that repo has a correct README.

Reviewer: I extracted that publishing issue to https://github.com/jquery/jquery/issues/5658.

Author: Good catch. I'll make sure the next publish is from the dist repo.

Author: I removed the second mention and the explanation about the old way. I think it's okay to keep it simple here. We can go more in-depth in the blog post.

Instead, jQuery will now only add `px` to a limited set of properties that are known to require it. This change may affect existing code that relies on the old behavior.

#### Breaking change: Remove opacity CSS hook

`.css( "opacity" )` will now return an empty string for detached elements in standard-compliant browsers and "1" in IE. That behavior is shared by most other CSS properties, but may affect existing code relying on a return value of "1".

### Data

#### Important fix: `Object.prototype` pollution

> jQuery 4.0 includes a fix to ensure event and data keys matching `Object.prototype` properties are supported without overriding the native properties. This change is not expected to affect existing code.

Reviewer: I've seen my share of `obj.hasOwnProperty( key )` checks; I expect the other `Object.prototype` properties are used way less often. Admittedly, it was more common in the past. How about:
````suggestion
jQuery 4.0 includes a fix to ensure event and data keys matching `Object.prototype` properties are supported without overriding the native properties. Don't call `hasOwnProperty` on a data object:
```js
if ( elem.data().hasOwnProperty( "key" ) ) { /* ... */ }
```
Instead, use on of the following:
```js
if ( "key" in elem.data() ) { /* ... */ }
if ( Object.hasOwn( elem.data(), "key" ) ) { /* ... */ }
```
````
If that's too long, I'd still consider at least a very short note about `hasOwnProperty`.

Reviewer: Or maybe use something similar to what you already have in a different section:
> This may affect code calling `hasOwnProperty` on `jQuery.event.special`, which should be rare.

### Deferred

#### Breaking change: Removed `jQuery.Deferred.getStackHook`

This has been renamed since 3.7.0 to `jQuery.Deferred.getErrorHook`. It is used to pass the original error to `jQuery.Deferred.exceptionHook`. Previously, we recommended passing the stack but that didn't play well with source maps. `jQuery.Deferred.exceptionHook` can be used to debug asynchronous errors.

> TODO: link to documentation

Reviewer: I have a docs PR at https://github.com/jquery/api.jquery.com/pull/1277, if we can get it landed, we'll be able to add a link here.

> TODO: link to documentation

Reviewer: I have a docs PR at https://github.com/jquery/api.jquery.com/pull/1277, if we can get it landed, we'll be able to add a link here.

Reviewer: These are now live:
* https://api.jquery.com/jQuery.Deferred.getStackHook/
* https://api.jquery.com/jQuery.Deferred.getErrorHook/

This change was needed in order to add support for [Trusted Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API). It's not entirely clear what real use cases might be affected by this change, but we're listing it here just in case.

> #### Important fix: Don't remove HTML comments, including `CDATA` sections, from scripts

Reviewer: A CDATA section is not an HTML comment; it may be embedded in one but it may also lie standalone.
```suggestion
#### Important fix: Don't remove HTML comments and `CDATA` sections from scripts
```

> Browsers can now handle this without jQuery's help. This change is not expected to affect existing code, but is an important fix because jQuery's logic removing those comments was not correct in 100% of cases.

Reviewer: Since it's not just about comments:
```suggestion
Browsers can now handle these without jQuery's help. This change is not expected to affect existing code, but is an important fix because jQuery's logic removing them was not correct in 100% of cases.
```

### Selector

#### Important fix: Backport jQuery selection context logic to selector-native

> jQuery has long had a minimal selector engine that could be used in place of Sizzle. This engine was missing some logic that Sizzle had for handling the context of a selection. This change backports that logic to the native selector engine, which may affect code that relied on the old behavior. For example, `$div.find( "> *" )` will no longer throw an error when using the native selector engine.Also, given the following HTML:

Reviewer: A missing space before "Also":
```suggestion
jQuery has long had a minimal selector engine that could be used in place of Sizzle. This engine was missing some logic that Sizzle had for handling the context of a selection. This change backports that logic to the native selector engine, which may affect code that relied on the old behavior. For example, `$div.find( "> *" )` will no longer throw an error when using the native selector engine. Also, given the following HTML:
```

```html
<div id="parent">
	<span></span>
</div>
```

> The following returns 0 results in jQuery 4.0:

Reviewer: A minor suggestion, feel free to ignore:
```suggestion
The following returns 0 results in jQuery 4.0 even with the selector-native engine:
```

Author: I think it's ok because this section is specifically about selector-native.
